- [Instructor] Let's now look the concept of interceptors
in Spring MVC.
Interceptors are very similar to the filter components
in the Servlet JSP API
which means they will be used for pre- and post-processing
of the request.
Very common use cases for interceptors
could be user authentication
or you maybe want to set up the session
or maybe just lock some request data.
Interceptors generally hold that piece of functionality
which is the administrative part of your application.
You want to keep that separate
from the actual business logic
which actually runs in the controller.
Let's see how this work.
When there's a request coming in to your application,
it is first intercepted by the dispatcher servlet.
Now, had this been a conventional Servlet JSP application
that incoming request would have directly gone
to a filter.
However, in Spring MVC we have seen
that Dispatcher Servlet is the first component line
to receive the request.
Every request is of course mapped to a set of interceptors
along with the handler.
This is done by HandlerMapping
and we have discussed this special bean type
in one of our previous videos.
So once Dispatcher Servlet resolves the URL pattern
and understands which interceptors and handler
to invoke,
then HandlerAdapter is going to help the servlet
in order to invoke that method.
That's when the interceptor gets called.
Now, whatever happens as a part of this invocation
is the pre-processing of the request
because the handler is not yet called.
If all the execution in the pre-processing logic
of interceptors is okay
then the controller's forwarded to the handler
which is, of course the controller.
The controller is then free to call the rest
of the application logic to execute your flow.
Once everything is ready,
the call is given back to the interceptor
and that logic is the post-processing of the request.
So let's say you've got a lot of models
that you've prepared in the controller
and you want to enhance those models
for display of that data on your JSP
then that logic could be a part of post-processing
inside the interceptor.
So once everything is ready,
the response can be written back to the client.
Now, if you see on the slide
the interceptors are one to many
which means every request
could definitely have multiple interceptors mapped to it.
This is totally understandable.
You may have many administrative pieces of functionality
in your application which you do not want to bundle
in the same interceptor class.
So you could have multiple classes mapped
to the same request.
These interceptors will get executed in an order.
If all the interceptors execute well,
then the control goes to the handler.
However, if one or more interceptors
have a problem in the execution,
then something is not okay
which means the response will be returned back
to the client there and then.
In this case, the controller will never be invoked.
So interceptors have this power
of terminating the request processing chain.
There could be two meanings to this.
The first is there was something wrong
in the execution of the interceptors.
Second, the dispatcher servlet has probably concluded
that interceptors were enough
to serve this incoming request.
And that's exactly why the response may return
to the client in this case.